Phone # ?? Your Name??

Email_id

DevOps Engineer

7+ years of professional total IT experience in design, develop, build and deployment of web

applications.

3+ years in practicing DevOps, Cloud Automation &amp; Quality Engineering

Expertise

 Experience in migrating applications to both AWS and Azure cloud platforms
 Extensive experience in setting up CI/CD pipelines using tools such as Jenkins, Maven,
Docker, Nexus, Artifactory, Slack and Azure pipelines
 Strong experience in automating infrastructure setup on AWS cloud and Azure Cloud using
Terraform.
 Extensive experience in distributed Agile and Scrum methodologies to develop best practices
for software development and implementation
 Strong experience in working with version control systems such as Git, GitHub, Bitbucket,
Azure Repos
 Experience working with developing scripts and automation tools used for building,
integrating and deploying software releases to multiple environments.
 Strong hands on experience in scripting languages such as Groovy, JSON, YAML, Shell
scripting.
 Strong experience in code quality and code coverage tools such as SonarQube, JaCoCo and
JUnit.
 Good knowledge of virtualization and container technology like Docker. Experience in creating
Dockerfiles and working with Docker containers.
 Have good knowledge in Kubernetes and have setup clusters in Amazon EKS, Azure AKS
 Strong exposure in Ansible for managing software installations, patch management to servers.
 Strong knowledge on practicing TDD, automating Junit tests using Maven in Jenkins.
 Strong knowledge in Tomcat, WebLogic servers on different Operating Systems like Windows,
UNIX and Solaris platforms.
 Participated in the release cycle of the product which involved environments like
Development, QA UAT and Production.
 Worked with project documentation and documented other application related issues, bugs on
internal wiki website.
 A highly motivated, energetic individual, a team player with excellent communication and
inter-personal skills.

Professional Experience

BAYLOR &amp; SCOTT HOSPITAL Dallas, TX
DEVOPS ENGINEER 07/2020 to till date
In this project, as a Cloud DevOps Engineer, I am responsible for migrating applications into AWS
cloud by creating CI/CD pipelines using Jenkins.
Contributions:

 Set up CI/CD pipelines for Microservices and integrated tools such as Maven, Bitbucket,
SonarQube, Nexus, Docker, Slack for providing immediate feedback to DEV teams after
code check-in
 Provisioned Dynamic Jenkins Docker slaves using DockerHost for CICD Pipelines
 Wrote Ansible playbooks from scratch in YAML. Installing, setting up &amp; Troubleshooting
Ansible, created and automated platform environment setup.
 Set up Git repositories and SSH Keys in GitHub for Agile teams.
 Integrated GitHub web hooks into Jenkins to automate the code check-out process.
 Implemented the setup for master slave architecture to improve the performance of Jenkins.
 Imported existing infrastructure into Terraform using Terraform Import command
 Created Dockerfile and automated docker image creation using Jenkins and Docker.
 Automated infrastructure provisioning on AWS using Terraform and Ansible.
 Created nightly builds with integration to code quality tools such as SonarQube, Veracode.
 Created quality gates in SonarQube dashboard and enforced in the pipelines to fail the builds
when conditions not met.
 Rebuild of entire existing platform over to Docker containers.
 Setup Kubernetes clusters using Amazon EKS.

CHASE— CITY, STATE 08/2018 – 06/2020
DEVOPS ENGINEER
I am responsible for managing Azure resources in cloud and maintain Continuous Integration and
Continuous Deployment (CI/CD) pipeline for fast paced robust application development environment.
As a member of onboarding team, my responsibility is to implement DevOps transformation by
working with Agile teams to migrate applications to Azure platform.
Contributions:
 Setup repos on Azure Git, merging code from develop branch to master branch and make it
ready for deployment.
 Migrated legacy applications to Microsoft Azure Cloud PaaS by setting up CI/CD pipelines on
AzureDevOps
 Created WebApps (PaaS solutions) on Azure portal for deploying web applications using
Azure DevOps pipelines.
 Setup AKS clusters in Azure using Azure CLI.
 Created nightly builds with integration to code quality tools such as SonarQube, Veracode.
 Helped teams to reduce defects rate by 30% by introducing TDD in first 3 months.
 Created quality gates in SonarQube dashboard and enforced in the pipelines to fail the builds
when conditions were not met.
 Set up the SonarLint plug-ins in developer’s workstation for detecting defects early during
development.
 Built and deployed Docker containers to break up monolithic app into micro services,
improving developer workflow, increasing scalability, and optimizing speed.
 Implemented Release management workflow for QA, UAT and Prod environments.
 Prepared and presented SCM best practices for implementing continuous integration for the
team
WALMART — Arkansas, State 05/2015 – 07/2018
JAVA DEVELOPER
Contributions:

 Effectively engaged with full programming improvement lifecycle: from business/frameworks
investigation, through necessities gathering and practical detail composing, to advancement,
testing and conveyance.
 Composed and created UI screens utilizing HTML5, CSS3, JavaScript, JSON and AJAX.
 Created custom Angular JS mandates to assemble custom reusable segments to use over the
application pages.
 Utilized Spring Beans to embody business rationale and Implemented Application MVC
Architecture utilizing Spring MVC.
 Planned and created Rewards API utilizing Spring Boot.
 Utilized Spring AOP for logging for crosscutting worries of the application.
 Created server-side application to associate with database utilizing Spring Boot and Hibernate.
 Utilized Spring XML setup for Dependency Injection.
 Created segments of REST web administrations end to end, utilizing distinctive Annotations.
 Created complex administration segments for Data Access Layer, DAO classes to
communicate with backend utilizing Java and Hibernate Framework.
 Utilized Maven for assemble structure and Jenkins for persistent form framework

Education

Which? Degree from University Name, Location and County

Training

Jenkins, Terraform, Ansible, Puppet and Docker hands on training on AWS and Azure